DOCS-12591-email-1.5.0-kt (#1699)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: email/1.5/modules/ROOT/pages/email-troubleshooting.adoc

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<AsyncLogger name="org.mule.extension.email" level="DEBUG" />
----
+
[start=6]
. Save your changes.
. Click the project name in *Package Explorer* and then click *Run* > *Run As* > *Mule Application*.
. Navigate to the *Console* view to read the Email Connector's messages in the logger:
+
[source,plain-text]
----
DEBUG 2021-04-26 18:51:08,536 [_pollingSource_imapattachmentFlow/executor.01] [processor: ; event: ] org.mule.extension.email.internal.mailbox.BaseMailboxPollingSource: Poll will be skipped, since last poll emails are still being processed
INFO  2021-04-26 18:51:09,166 [[MuleRuntime].uber.04: [imapattachment].imapattachmentFlow.CPU_LITE @111719e0] [processor: imapattachmentFlow/processors/1/processors/2; event: 820f7fe0-a6d9-11eb-a84b-147dda4dba09] org.mule.runtime.core.internal.processor.LoggerMessageProcessor: "" as Binary {base: "64"}
DEBUG 2021-04-26 18:51:15,360 [_pollingSource_imapattachmentFlow/executor.01] [processor: ; event: ] org.mule.extension.email.internal.mailbox.BaseMailboxPollingSource: Email [172] was not processed.
....
----

== Troubleshoot Parsing Text File Attachment as Body Message

> When Email Connector receives a message without body and only an attachment file with Content-Type as `text`, the connector publishes the text content as payload body. To receive the text file in the payload attachments list, set the `parsing.text.attachment.as.body` system property to `false`. Refer to the xref:email-attachment.adoc[set parsing text file attachment as body message] documentation for details.

Reviewer: body > a body
with Content-Type - with the Content-Type `text`,
as a payload body

. Add the `<property key="mail.debug" value="true"/>` to the IMAP or SMTP connection element.
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
  <email:imaps-connection host="..." user="..." password="..." >
    <email:properties >
      <email:property key="mail.debug" value="true" />
    </email:properties>
  </email:imaps-connection>
----
+
[start=6]
. Save your changes.
. Click the project name in *Package Explorer* and then click *Run* > *Run As* > *Mule Application*.
. Navigate to the *Console* view to read the email messages in the logger:
+
[source,plain-text]
----
DEBUG: JavaMail version 1.6.3
DEBUG: successfully loaded resource: /META-INF/javamail.default.address.map
DEBUG: getProvider() returning javax.mail.Provider[STORE,imap,com.sun.mail.imap.IMAPStore,Oracle]
DEBUG IMAP: mail.imap.fetchsize: 16384
DEBUG IMAP: mail.imap.ignorebodystructuresize: false
DEBUG IMAP: trying to connect to host "******", port 993, isSSL true
* OK The Microsoft Exchange IMAP4 service is ready. [******]
A0 CAPABILITY
* CAPABILITY IMAP4 IMAP4rev1 AUTH=PLAIN AUTH=XOAUTH2 SASL-IR UIDPLUS MOVE ID UNSELECT CHILDREN IDLE NAMESPACE LITERAL+
A0 OK CAPABILITY completed.
...
----

> If you run the app in Anypoint Studio, the logging prints the debug lines in the console view. +

Reviewer: logging > logger here and elsewhere?

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<AsyncLogger name="org.mule.extension.email" level="DEBUG" />
----
+
[start=6]
. Save your changes.
. Click the project name in *Package Explorer* and then click *Run* > *Run As* > *Mule Application*.
. Navigate to the *Console* view to read the Email Connector's messages in the logger:
+
[source,plain-text]
----
DEBUG 2021-04-26 18:51:08,536 [_pollingSource_imapattachmentFlow/executor.01] [processor: ; event: ] org.mule.extension.email.internal.mailbox.BaseMailboxPollingSource: Poll will be skipped, since last poll emails are still being processed
INFO  2021-04-26 18:51:09,166 [[MuleRuntime].uber.04: [imapattachment].imapattachmentFlow.CPU_LITE @111719e0] [processor: imapattachmentFlow/processors/1/processors/2; event: 820f7fe0-a6d9-11eb-a84b-147dda4dba09] org.mule.runtime.core.internal.processor.LoggerMessageProcessor: "" as Binary {base: "64"}
DEBUG 2021-04-26 18:51:15,360 [_pollingSource_imapattachmentFlow/executor.01] [processor: ; event: ] org.mule.extension.email.internal.mailbox.BaseMailboxPollingSource: Email [172] was not processed.
....
----

== Troubleshoot Parsing Text File Attachment as Body Message

> When Email Connector receives a message without body and only an attachment file with Content-Type as `text`, the connector publishes the text content as payload body. To receive the text file in the payload attachments list, set the `parsing.text.attachment.as.body` system property to `false`. Refer to the xref:email-attachmen.adoc[set parsing text file attachment as body message] documentation for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Email Connector receives a message without a body and only an attachment file with Content-Type as `text`, the connector publishes the text content as the payload body. To receive the text file in the payload attachments list, set the `parsing.text.attachment.as.body` system property to `false`. Refer to the xref:email-attachmen.adoc[set parsing text file attachment as body message] documentation for details.
```

Reviewer: a body

== Troubleshoot Jakarta Mail System Properties

> Email Connector uses the Java Mail library. Thereby, you can change certain aspects how the connector behaves by changing specific Jakarta Mail system properties, such as MIME type and MIME multipart properties. These properties control conformance to the MIME type specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Email Connector uses the Java Mail library. Thereby, you can change certain aspects of connector behavior by changing specific Jakarta Mail system properties, such as the MIME type and MIME multipart properties. These properties control conformance to the MIME type specification.
```

Note that these properties are not session properties and you must set them globally as system properties. To learn how to set system properties in Anypoint Studio or for on-premises deployments, refer to the xref:mule-runtime::mule-app-properties-system.adoc[system properties] documentation.

=== MIME Type System Properties

> These are the most consulted Jakarta Mail MIME type system properties:

Reviewer: most used???

* `mail.mime.decodetext.strict` +

> Controls decoding of MIME encoded-words. The MIME specification requires that encoded-words start at the beginning of a whitespace-separated word. Some mailers incorrectly include encoded-words in the middle of a word. If the `mail.mime.decodetext.strict` system property is set to `false`, an attempt is made to decode these illegal encoded-words. Defaults to `true`.

Reviewer: decoding of > the decoding of
MIME encoded-words > MIME-encoded words

* `mail.mime.encodeeol.strict` +

> Controls the choice of Content-Transfer-Encoding for MIME parts that are not of type `text`. Often such parts contain textual data for which an encoding that allows the normal end of line conventions is appropriate. In rare cases, such a part appears to contain entirely textual data but requires an encoding that preserves CR and LF characters without change. If the `mail.mime.encodeeol.strict` system property is set to `true`, such an encoding is used when necessary. Defaults to `false`.

Reviewer: Controls the choice of Content-Transfer-Encoding for MIME parts that are not of type `text`. Often these MIME parts contain textual data for which an encoding that allows the normal end of line conventions is appropriate. In rare cases, MIME parts that are not of type `text`  appear to contain entirely textual data, but they require an encoding that preserves the CR and LF characters without change. If the `mail.mime.encodeeol.strict` system property is set to `true`, this type of encoding is used when necessary. Defaults to `false`.

* `mail.mime.charset` +

>  Specifies the default MIME charset to use for encoded words and text parts that don't. Otherwise, the property specifies a charset. Usually, the default MIME charset is derived from the default Java charset, as specified in the `file.encoding` system property. Most applications do not need to explicitly set the default MIME charset. Set this property in cases where the default MIME charset to use for mail messages is different than the charset used for files stored on the system.

Reviewer: that don't what?

Suggest: Set this property when the default MIME charset to use for mail messages is different than the charset used for files stored on the system.

* `mail.mime.ignoreunknownencoding` +
Controls whether unknown values in the Content-Transfer-Encoding header, as passed to the decode method, cause an exception. If set to `true`, unknown values are ignored and 8bit encoding is assumed. Otherwise, unknown values throw a `MessagingException` exception.

=== MIME Multipart System Properties

> These are the most consulted Jakarta Mail MIME Multipart system properties:

Reviewer: most used

* `mail.mime.multipart.ignoremissingendboundary` +
Set this property to `false` to throw a `MessagingException` exception if the multipart data does not end with the required end boundary line. If this property is set to `true` or not set at all, missing end boundaries are not considered an error, and the final body part ends at the end of the data.

* `mail.mime.multipart.ignoremissingboundaryparameter`+
 Set this property to `false` to throw a `MessagingException` exception if the Content-Type of the MIME multipart does not include a boundary parameter. If this property is set to `true` or not set at all, the multipart parsing code searches for a line that looks like a boundary line and uses that line as the boundary separating the parts.

* `mail.mime.multipart.ignoreexistingboundaryparameter` +
Set this property to `true` to ignore any boundary and instead search for a boundary line in the message as with the `mail.mime.multipart.ignoremissingboundaryparameter` system property.

* `mail.mime.multipart.allowempty` +

> Usually, when writing out a MIME multipart that contains no body parts, or when trying to parse a multipart message with no body parts, a `MessagingException` exception is thrown. The MIME type specification does not allow multipart content with no body parts. Set the `mail.mime.multipart.allowempty` system property to `true` to override this behavior. When writing out such a MIME multipart, a single empty part is included. When reading such multipart, a MIME multipart is created with no body parts.

Reviewer: When writing out a what?
